+++
title = "Windows™, Windows™, Windows™ (and VirtualBox)"
date = 2007-04-30
+++

So a while ago, I leaped into Ubuntu, and I haven't really looked back very much. I mean - sure, I use Windows™ to play games, inasmuch as I play games anymore, and I've used Media Center™ a bit, but not very much. At work, I've been using Ubuntu Edgy Eft almost exclusively (with a mind to update to Feisty Fawn soon), but I find that I need to do more and more testing in a Windows™ environment. On my laptop, I dual boot, but as my laptop is my very own personal device, I'm not bringing it to work anymore and I can't do testing that way. So, I've decided to go with some kind of Virtual machine. The software I'm going with is called [VirtualBox](http://www.virtualbox.org).

I've been fairly impressed with VirtualBox thus far. It's been pretty intuitive to use, because I never read the instructions and I'm using it fairly effectively. Hilariously, the hardest thing to deal with has been installing Windows™. I decided to install the copy of Windows™ that I should have on this computer (because it's difficult to purchase a non-Windows™ computer from our preferred vendor listing). Unfortunately, this copy of Windows™ had already called back to the mothership one time before I deleted it off the hard drive, so when I tried to verify my copy of Windows™, it choked up a lung and told Microsoft™ I was evil. I had to phone Microsoft™ and get a new code for verification (which was interesting on its own - I had to read out a 42 digit number to a computer, and then it got to the "this may be a pirated, I'm directing you to a Person™" phase, I had to read out the 42 digit number to a person. I'm sure the other people in my cubefarm were not impressed).

By default, the virtual machine gets 192 megs of RAM, which I have since found out is just enough to start upgrading to IE7™, but not enough to finish the job. My install crapped out on me and I couldn't get that virtual machine back. I tried again - same thing. Then I upped the RAM to 512 and things are flying easy. I've got a snapshot at a few different stages of installation, so if something goes horrendously wrong, I can just backtrack and start again really easily. All things told, this is a very painless way to run Windows™ at work and not have to really _install_ it, and, all told, it only took me about an hour and a half to get everything working. That's the install time of VirtualBox _and_ Windows XP™, with a couple of screw-ups in the middle.

Oh, and the name of my new virtual Windows ™ machine? Moriarty, because my desktop is called Sherlock.
